# PPGN-Physics-Preserved-Graph-Networks-for-Fault-Location-with-Limited-Observation-and-Labels
The increasing number of variable renewable energy (solar and wind power) causes power grids to have more abnormal conditions or faults. Faults may further trigger power blackouts or wildfires without timely monitoring and control strategy.  Machine learning is a promising technology to accelerate the automation and intelligence of power grid monitoring systems.   Unfortunately, the black-box machine learning methods are weak to the realistic challenges in power grids: low observation, insufficient labels, and stochastic environments. To overcome the vulnerability of black-box machine learning, we preserve the physics of power grids through graph networks to efficiently and accurately locate the faults even with limited observability and low label rates.  We first calculate the graph embedding of power grid infrastructure by establishing a reduced graph network with the observed nodes, then efficiently locate the fault on the node level using the low-dimensional graph embedding. To augment the location accuracy at low label rates, we build another graph network representing the physical similarity of labeled and unlabeled data samples. Importantly, we provide the physical interpretations of the benefits of the graph design through a random walk equivalence. We conduct comprehensive numerical experiments in the IEEE 123-node. Our proposed method shows superior performance than three baseline classifiers for different fault types, label rates, and robustness to out-of-distribution (OOD) data. Additionally, we extend the proposed method to the IEEE 37-node benchmark system and validate the effectiveness of the proposed training strategy. 
